# Development environment setup

### Prerequisites
  - Install Node.js installed on your localhost. On MacOs you can install it using brew by running:
```brew install node```
  - [Enable the Apps Script API](https://script.google.com/home/usersettings)


### Setup

TODO: Figure out how to initialize dscc-gen using an existing project in order to get rid of the steps below related to the .clasps.json and package.json files. This should not be necessary.

1. Go to https://script.google.com/home
2. Create a new project by clicking on "New Project"
3. The App script editor UI opens up. Click on "File" > "Project Properties" and copy the value for the "Script ID" field.
4. Open a Terminal window and clone the repo: ```git clone git@github.com:blockchain-etl/data-studio-connectors.git```
5. Go to the directory containing the connector code:
```cd data-studio-connectors/crypto-analytics```
6. Install the packages: ```npm install```
7. Generate .configuration files for you local setup:
```npx @google/dscc-gen connector --script_id <SCRIPT_ID>```
When it asks for a script name, use "dscc-config"
8. Copy the .clasps.json file generated by the dscc-gen tool to the source repository
```cp dscc-config/.clasps.json .```
9. Look for the "dsccConnector" section in the file "dscc-config/package.json". Copy the values for the fields "production" and "latest" values to the "package.json" in the repository. It should look like this:
```
  "dsccConnector": {
    "production": "<value>",
    "latest": "<value>"
  },
```

### Deploy the connector
```npm run push```
That will push the code to the App Script server.
You can check it worked by going to your App script editor UI and hit refresh. It should now have the code from the repo.

### Run the connector
```npm run try_latest```
You may get a warning about overwriting the manifest file. That's ok.
It should then open a browser window with the connector loaded in Google Data Studio, asking for a GCP Project ID and a contract address.


## Misc links
  * [Local development setup](https://developers.google.com/datastudio/connector/local-development)
  * [create a new Apps Script project](https://medium.com/@bajena3/building-a-custom-google-data-studio-connector-from-a-z-part-1-basic-setup-445a6d965d3f)
